one of the things i really didn't like
about being a teacher
is that i couldn't just trust the kids
to go on the internet and
look up things so i went on tick-tock to
go look at that vegan teacher's post
because i hate her and i couldn't find
her tick-tock and then i went to youtube
to try and find her youtube channel
but the first thing i saw was this that
vegan teacher is
bad okay guys so a quick update on that
vegan teacher
because everyone seems to be talking
about her um she's still dumb
bye guys she's banned from tick tock
she's gone
yeah when an animal writes activists
like me a middle-aged gray-haired woman
who's 56 and who is a school teacher and
a nurse
gets shot down this somehow brings you
great joy
as if you're playing a video game but
this is real life
it's not a video game there are actual
victims there are actual animals who are
suffering
right now in ways that you know nothing
about
the parents are also scared in our
society right now
parents are mere children they've never
actually grown up
they're just an older version of their
kids
i learned this now because after being
on tick tock and watching the amount of
duets that are going on there
and realizing it's horrifying how
uneducated the vast majority of the
population is
deke meyer posted a tick-tock duetting
tommy showing off his two golden youtube
play button awards
where she pulled out a cucumber and said
nice vegan girls don't want to play with
your buttons
but if you want them to play with your
buttons you'll have to show them your
fruits and your vegetables
tommy is only 16 years old and some
online including his fans
found that comment distasteful the
problem with our school system
is not that we are turning out people
who can't read
and write we're not ready for the job
market
the problem with our school system is
that we haven't taught kids to think
and to care
the lack of positive support
that vegan teacher has received from her
fellow vegans
is largely a sign of the literal
and figurative exhaustion of the vegan
movement
as a whole it is
incomprehensible to me that somebody
like earthling ed
would try to make hay with his audience
by criticizing inland basting that vegan
teacher
rather than supporting her it is
incomprehensible to me
that somebody like a natural vegan would
try to make her own
star shine writer by putting
that vegan teacher in the shade but that
has been
the greater part of the reaction of
vegans
to that vegan teacher and what has she
done
or what has she supposedly done wrong
she has been doing
completely normal
vegan activism and advocacy okay like
you gotta have a sense
of what's normal okay normal doesn't
mean
extraordinary it doesn't mean brilliant
it doesn't mean genius
right but it also doesn't mean something
else at the opposite end of the spectrum
there
doesn't mean deplorable it doesn't mean
shocking okay for her to stand in front
of a mcdonald's
with her ukulele and sing a song
about how people should be vegan rather
than eating the food at mcdonald's
that is normal okay if that
is not normal activism
and advocacy let me ask you what
is now why is it that people like
earthling ed and people like unnatural
vegan and so many other vegans have
responded
to her so negatively i think it's just
because this is now the year 2021
and most of these people have been on
this same merry-go-round
for such a long time and they're so worn
down and so sick of it
they don't admit it to themselves and
they don't admit it
to their audience right and a lot of
these people have never really
thought through analytically what it is
they're reacting to negatively here
uh it's another vegan
who's positively inspired by
gary yourofsky and telling people to see
the gary yourofsky
greatest speech oh
in 2021 haven't
haven't we already tried this haven't we
already heard this before haven't we
already been through this
oh it's another vegan who completely
unironically
uses slogans from direct action
everywhere
someone who says with absolutely no
no no hint of mockery or self-analysis
or awareness of what's happened in the
last 10 years it's not
food it's violence someone who
with no irony and with no criticism no
no two levels about it is telling you
what a wonderful thing anonymous for the
voiceless is
also known as av all these different
movements and you know
look i would be overstating the case to
say that these movements and these
leaders these examples
including gary yourofsky i would be
overstating my case to say that they
have been
discredited in veganism right
from my perspective they're discredited
my channel has engaged in
five years of critique of what's been
going on with leadership the vegan
movement right
i think that it would be more fair to
say
that people have just run out
of patience this has just become
familiar
they've become apprehensive there's a
generalized sense
that something is wrong here something
is wrong with the movement
even if they can't put their finger on
what it is
there's a sense of unease and
dissatisfaction
even for people who have only been
involved with this movement for five
years
and a lot of people have been involved
for 15 years
or 20 years let's just say five years
now you've been involved with being
there's a sense of looking around and
being like
what direction is this going in looking
back and saying
what direction has this been going in
whoa what happened to the last five
years
of my life and a lot of these people
they've never they've never sat down and
thought it through right but they went
through exactly
the phases and stages of enthusiasm
that are still being propounded as if
they're new
today by that vegan teacher and dallas
they're reaching a new audience
some of our viewers are are eight years
old you know it's new it's still new to
a lot of people like
oh yeah get enthusiastic go out and
watch this documentary
go watch earthlings go she hit heavily
she promotes that document
go watch earthlings go watch dominion go
watch for silver knives
get jazzed up and then go through this
sequence of familiar steps whether it's
gary yourofsky or anonymous with a
voiceless direct section everywhere like
oh oh what you should do in the next
five years is walk in the same footsteps
that so many of us
so many older experienced vegan
activists walked through in the last
five years
you should walk down this same crooked
path
to nowhere and end up as disillusioned
and disappointed and hopeless and
directionless as we all are
right like
i don't think the critique and criticism
of that vegan teacher has been
legitimate or intelligent or
well-intentioned
i don't at all i have absolutely no
sympathy for the way earthling ed
has responded to her i have no sympathy
for the way a natural vegan as responder
and a number of smaller
youtube channels have kind of sniped and
griped at her
what she has done has been 100
normal vegan activism right but we've
been coping with this
for so many years it's so overly
familiar and tiresome to us
that we've started to abnormalize it
right we've started
to perceive this as abnormal we've all
started to gain
some sense of what is wrong
with what we've been doing with the last
five years in this movement and yeah
in case this is your first time coming
to my channel
i was in the minority within a minority
of voices that already five years ago
and seven years ago
was really actively criticizing what was
wrong with the methods
and the morals and the philosophy the
pragmatic direction veganism what we
were actually
doing as a movement and also the theory
behind it
okay
as a general rule you don't get to
choose
your audience you just get to choose
what kind of
content you create and then you find out
afterward
who gravitates to it who relates to it
who benefits from it right
but to some extent each of us
in choosing to make a particular type of
content
we are predictably targeting or pursuing
one type of audience and we're closing
the door against
another i used to say on this channel
again and again
week after week month after month year
after year
i am not interested in the stupidest
40 of my audience i'm not catering to
them
i'm not making content for them i'm not
going to break down and explain things
for them
right i am not pursuing a mass audience
i am not pursuing the stupidest 40 of
the audience and i can remember coming
and say you know what
some days i feel like i just don't want
to make content for the stupidest
80 of the audience i'm gonna target a
really small minority of people
who can relate to and appreciate this
video i'm gonna make
about the philosophy of aristotle right
i'm gonna make i'm gonna make content
that's kind of unapproachable that's
gonna require a lot of independent
research and thought for you to
appreciate or understand what it is i'm
doing right i'm
actively alienating i'm actively
slamming the door on a large part of the
heights
and that happened within veganism too
right do you have any idea how many
vegans
will always and forever bitterly hate
this channel
and will make up lies denouncing
denouncing
me defaming me slandering me and telling
people not to watch my channel
just because of what i have to say about
yoga and meditation
things that are in principle totally
unrelated to veganism
oh oh no he's a skeptic about yoga and
meditation
have you have you seen those videos you
made talking about buddhism
buddhist meditation did you see those
videos you made debunking claims that
meditation has all these
health benefits okay
number of people who valorize
meditation it's however many million
in the united states and europe okay
within veganism
it's a huge percentage of people in
terms of people who are vegan activists
people who roll heavy
in the vegan movement a huge percentage
of those people
have pseudo spiritual
and supernatural beliefs about
meditation
and yoga and i'm slamming the door on
them i'm saying guess what
you're in the stupidest 40 of the
audience i'm i'm gonna tell it to you
straight right
from my perspective i have something
really meaningful and important to say
about meditation the misinterpretation
of it
people making money out of it i'm not
doing this in a cynical way
but i'm aware hey a small percentage of
the
potential audience for my channel is
even going to be willing to listen
to what i have to say about meditation a
large percentage is going to hate me for
it
and i can predict what the effects are
within this demi-mod within this sub
category
of the vegan movement right so you look
at someone like
that vegan teacher you have to
appreciate she was doing the opposite
right she was consciously and
intentionally
opening the door to the stupidest people
in the world she was actively
courting and pursuing an audience of
children and not highly intellectual
children at their best who are coming on
to get advice
on how to get an a plus on their science
exam there were
some channels doing that kind of content
there are you know
not not appealing to the best aspects of
the children's nature or the parents
nature right
pandering to the lowest common
denominator to reach an audience
of millions right and in that she
succeeded
but at what price at the price of
her personal integrity at the cost of
becoming
both in public perception and in actual
fact
a despicable clown
i'll say again on the internet
with broadcasting with being an author
whether you create content on social
media or you publish books
you do not choose whether you will be
loved or hated you choose
whether you will be known or unknown
and what i have in common with that
vegan teacher
is that we both committed to take this
reckless and in some way
self-destructive
path of saying i'm going to come on
camera
even if it ruins my life okay i am going
to take that step
i am going to be known and then i'm
going to deal
with the consequences whatever they may
be
why is it that the vegan teacher
in her 50s sees nothing wrong
with the activism that teenagers
are engaged in why is there no critique
right why is it
that she sees nothing wrong with what
direct action everywhere is doing
with what anonymous voiceless is doing
with what gary yourofsky is doing
all these overly familiar
methods and theories and philosophies
from even just the last five years of
veganism let alone the last
50 years of failure
she know better shouldn't she have
decades
of experience and insight ev even beyond
mine
into what has gone wrong with the vegan
movement over the last
20 years 50 years you name it shouldn't
she be
not just an advocate for veganism
but also an incisive critic
of everything that advocacy has failed
to accomplish
in the last five years showing us not
just what we ought to do
but how to do it better than our
antecedents
how to do it better than ever before
and part of that process inevitably is
going to involve
criticism and self-criticism within
the vegan movement
[Music]
maybe we can we can practice
yes